myRNAwrapper.sh is a wrapper for the perl script, which does its own thing but is in turn a wrapper
for scripts included in the software package hhmmir.
splitFasta is not necessary for use with this program, but can be used for splitting a fasta sequence,
if you should require to consider only one chromosome for example.

The extractFlanks.pl script is the main script. This will take a sam file of mapped reads and find
flanking regions in the genome of interest. These flanking regions are then passed to hhmmir modules to
find likely hairpins within them. Hairpins are then mapped back to the reference genome to determine
hairpin loci. Any that are intragenic are removed.
Bowtie is used to map the original reads back to the hairpins once they have been identified so coverage
plots can be produced and studied by eye.

To use the wrapper script, you must specify the following:

myRNAwrapper.sh <fasta> <fastq> <gff>

Where <fasta> is the FULL PATH to the genome fasta, <fastq> is the FULL PATH to your small RNA sequencing data 
(make sure it is trimmed and filtered - use trimmomatic and myRNA/utils/filterReads.sh on trimmed data) and 
<gff> is the FULL PATH to your cds sequences.

To use extractFlanks.pl alone, you must specify the following:

perl extractFlanks.pl
--fasta 	: the fasta input sequence that you wish to analyse. it must match the sam mapping file.
--sam 		: a sam file that contains fastx_collapser collapsed read mappings from smallRNA seq data to the fasta file
--direction 	: the direction of the flanking sequence, i.e. from the end of the smallRNA sequence, in which direction should a flank extend. this can be one of left/right/both.
--flank		: the size of the flanking sequence(s) you wish to extract. I have found a size opf 60 work well
--stack		: the number of identical read mappings that will trigger an extraction. I use a cutoff of 100 but you can go way lower if you want to identify microRNAs with low expression.
--output	: this is the name of the output from hhmmir. This will be further parsed with the myRNAwrapper.sh script.

By default myRNAwrapper.sh uses a flank size of 60, a read stack of 50 and a flank direction of both. You can modify the script to change these.
